W-19450649-functions-210-dm (#535)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dw-math-types.adoc

= Math Types (dw::util::Math)

[%header, cols="1,2a,3a"]
|===
| Type | Definition | Description

| OperationContext
| `type OperationContext = {&#124; precision?: Number, roundingMode?: RoundingMode &#124;}`

> |

Author: missing description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Defines the configuration under which a math operation is executed.

 * `precision`: number of digits used for the operation.
 * `roundingMode`: rounding mode applied to the operation.
```

| RoundHalfEven
| `type RoundHalfEven = "HALF_EVEN"`
| Rounding mode that rounds towards the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds towards the even neighbor.
If the digit to the left of the discarded fraction is odd, it behaves like `ROUND_HALF_UP`. If even, it behaves like `ROUND_HALF_DOWN`.

| RoundHalfUp
| `type RoundHalfUp = "HALF_UP"`
| Rounding mode that rounds towards the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds up.
If the discarded fraction is greater than or equal to 0.5, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`. Otherwise, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`.

| RoundUnnecessary
| `type RoundUnnecessary = "UNNECESSARY"`
| Rounding mode that asserts that the requested operation has an exact result, so no rounding is necessary.

| RoundUp
| `type RoundUp = "UP"`
| Rounding mode that rounds away from zero. It always increments the digit before a nonzero discarded fraction.

| RoundingMode
| `type RoundingMode = RoundUp &#124; RoundDown &#124; RoundCeiling &#124; RoundFloor &#124; RoundHalfUp &#124; RoundHalfDown &#124; RoundHalfEven &#124; RoundUnnecessary`

> |

Author: missing description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Enumeration of rounding strategies available for math operations. Available options are: `RoundUp`, `RoundDown`, `RoundCeiling`, `RoundFloor`, `RoundHalfUp`, `RoundHalfDown`, `RoundHalfEven`, `RoundUnnecessary`.
```

= Math Types (dw::util::Math)

[%header, cols="1,2a,3a"]
|===
| Type | Definition | Description

| OperationContext
| `type OperationContext = {&#124; precision?: Number, roundingMode?: RoundingMode &#124;}`
| Defines the configuration under which a math operation is executed.

 * `precision`: number of digits used for the operation.
 * `roundingMode`: rounding mode applied to the operation.

| RoundCeiling
| `type RoundCeiling = "CEILING"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards positive infinity. If the number is positive, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`. If negative, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward positive infinity. If the number is positive, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`. If negative, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`.
```

This rounding mode never decreases the calculated value.

| RoundDown
| `type RoundDown = "DOWN"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards zero. It never increments the digit before a discarded fraction (for example, truncates).

Author: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward zero. It never increments the digit before a discarded fraction (for example, truncates).
```

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards zero. It never increments the digit before a discarded fraction (for example, truncates).

Reviewer 2: Change all towards to toward :)

| RoundFloor
| `type RoundFloor = "FLOOR"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards negative infinity. If the number is positive, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`. If negative, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`.

Author: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward negative infinity. If the number is positive, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`. If negative, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`.
```

| RoundHalfDown
| `type RoundHalfDown = "HALF_DOWN"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds down.

Author: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds down.
```

If the discarded fraction is greater than 0.5, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`. Otherwise, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`.

| RoundHalfEven
| `type RoundHalfEven = "HALF_EVEN"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds towards the even neighbor.

Author: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds toward the even neighbor.
```

If the digit to the left of the discarded fraction is odd, it behaves like `ROUND_HALF_UP`. If even, it behaves like `ROUND_HALF_DOWN`.

| RoundHalfUp
| `type RoundHalfUp = "HALF_UP"`

> | Rounding mode that rounds towards the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds up.

Author: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that rounds toward the nearest neighbor, unless both neighbors are equidistant, in which case it rounds up.
```

If the discarded fraction is greater than or equal to 0.5, it behaves like `ROUND_UP`. Otherwise, it behaves like `ROUND_DOWN`.

| RoundUnnecessary
| `type RoundUnnecessary = "UNNECESSARY"`

> | Rounding mode that asserts that the requested operation has an exact result, so no rounding is necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Rounding mode that asserts that the requested operation has an exact result, so rounding isn't necessary.
```
